What is IoT?
Internet of Things (IoT) is an ecosystem of connected physical objects that are
accessible through the internet. The ‘thing’ in IoT could be a person with a heart
monitor or an automobile with built-in-sensors, i.e. objects that have been
assigned an IP address and have the ability to collect and transfer data over a
network without manual assistance or intervention. The embedded technology in
the objects helps them to interact with internal states or the external
environment, which in turn affects the decisions taken.
Why IoT?
An article by Ashton published in the RFID Journal in 1999 said, “If we had
computers that knew everything there was to know about things - using data they
gathered without any help from us - we would be able to track and count
everything, and greatly reduce waste, loss and cost. We would know when things
needed replacing, repairing or recalling, and whether they were fresh or past their
best. We need to empower computers with their own means of gathering
information, so they can see, hear and smell the world for themselves, in all its
random glory.” This is precisely what IoT platforms does for us. It enables
devices/objects to observe, identify and understand a situation or the
surroundings without being dependent on human help.
The purpose of this guide is to provide information concerning the proper
application of smoke detectors used in conjunction with fire alarm systems. The
guide outlines basic principles that should be considered in the application of
early warning fire and smoke detection devices. It presents operating
characteristics of detectors and environmental factors, which may aid, delay, or
prevent their operation.
This document presents information for fire protection, mechanical, and electrical
engineers; fire service personnel, fire alarm designers; and installers. A key
element in the effectiveness of smoke detection systems is the latest version of
NFPA 72 for installation and testing of systems. Installation must comply with all
code requirements and directions from Authorities Having Jurisdiction (AHJs). AHJ
directives always take precedence over other codes and exercise final authority
over installations and maintenance procedures.
