
Smoke detectors are important home safety tools because they increase your
chance of escaping from a house fire. Properly functioning detectors give you an
early warning that makes escape more likely, but the unit is more than just an
alarm. Understanding the primary functions of a smoke detector makes it clear to
see why you need them properly installed an working well.
Parts of a Smoke Detector
Smoke detectors have two main components: the sensor and the alarm. Both
components play an important role in the overall purpose of the unit, which is to
sense fires as soon as possible and alert anyone in the home, so they can get out.
These components are equally important. Sensing the fire does no good if the
alarm isn&#39;t loud and functioning. A poor sensor fails to send out the alert soon
enough to get people out of the home
Detection of Smoke
A smoke detector&#39;s initial function is detecting that fire is present. The way it
senses the fire depends on the type of detector it is. A photoelectric model has a
light source that goes into the sensing chamber. The light sits at an angle away
from the sensor. When smoke enters, it causes the light to reflect onto the
sensor, triggering the alarm. These units are best at detecting smoldering fires
that start with smoke before eventually breaking into flames.
An ionization model uses radioactive material positioned between two electrically
charged plates to ionize the air inside of it. This creates a current flow between
the two plates. Smoke sets off the alarm when it disrupts the ion flow. These
detectors are most responsive to fires with blazing flames.
Photoelectric and ionization smoke detectors both have certain advantages that
make them more effective in specific areas. For example, a photoelectric model
quickly detects smoke from smoldering bedding or furniture in a bedroom or
living room or family room, while ionization units give fast warning of a blaze
triggered by flammables in a utility room or a stove fire in a kitchen. Because each
type is ideal for a certain type of fire, it&#39;s a good idea to have at least one of each
in your home. You can also get a combination model that uses both photoelectric
and ionization methods for detecting smoke.

